[metal clicking]
[metal clicks then clangs]
[groans]
[woman singing in Maori]
[woman continues singing
in Maori]
[foreboding music playing]
[man] You can walk from here.
-Where are we?
-[man] You walk from here.
It's a very steep path.
Just mind how you go. [grunts]
[sheep bleating]
[dramatic music playing]
[Thomas] Dear Mary Stevens.
I hope this letter
finds you well.
I hope with all my heart.
You do not know me.
but I've known you
all your life.
And now I feel it is vital
you understand the truth
of your family's history.
Please make use
of the enclosed
and come to me.
I promise to tell you
everything.
I owe you that much.
Yours ever faithfully.
Thomas Boyd.
Mr. Boyd.
[gasps]
[thunder rumbling]
[knocking on door]
[door opens]
[dramatic music playing]
Hello.
My name's Peggy.
Let's get you up. shall we?
[horse hooves clopping]
We're here. miss.
[eerie music playing]
[door opens then closes]
[Nathaniel] Welcome.
Mary Stevens.
Forgive me.
Nathaniel Cole.
Welcome to Hawkesham Manor.
Thank you.
We'd heard you'd arrived
at Thomas's cottage.
You must be shattered.
-I'll be on my way tomorrow.
-Nonsense.
You'll need time to recover.
[Arthur] Who is it?
[footsteps approaching]
Arthur.
[Arthur retching]
Go back to your room.
-[footsteps receding]
-[door opens]
[Nathaniel] Show our guest
to the west bedroom.
-please.
-[door closes]
[footsteps receding]
[clicking]
[groans]
[soft music playing]
[sighs]
[sobs]
[knocking on door]
Yes. miss?
May I have a drink of water?
How are you feeling?
Better.
-Thank you. Peggy.
-You're welcome.
[water pouring]
[clock ticking]
[screams]
[panting]
[Nathaniel] Ah.
How are you this morning?
Please.
Thank you.
I'll be leaving today.
I need to find Thomas Boyd.
I believe you were a teacher.
I still am.
Then I have a proposal for you.
My granddaughter Anne
is in need of a governess.
She's only nine years old.
but she's... [chuckles]
-She's extremely bright.
-I'm sorry. I... I can't.
You can live here with us.
I'm afraid I can't.
I salute
your independent spirit. Mary.
I really do.
But it's nigh on impossible
for a young woman...
such as yourself
to find gainful employment
or accommodation
in this country.
When Thomas Boyd wrote to me...
I had no idea who he was.
But he promised to tell me
all about my parents
and my family.
He sent me the ticket
to get here
and I traveled for 73 days
from Wellington to Whitby.
So...
-I need to find Thomas Boyd.
-Thomas had the pox.
He died earlier this year.
I'm very sorry. Mary.
Was he my father?
No.
We're not so dissimilar.
you and I.
I too never knew my father.
When I ran away from the Sydney
orphanage that was my home.
Thomas Boyd ran with me.
He worked for me ever since.
I want to help you.
With respect. sir.
I have nothing but respect
for the Maori.
Your people are magnificent
specimens. both on land and sea.
I made a point of hiring
Maori men on my ships.
So. I know your people.
And I feel that I know you too.
Mary.
[in Maori]
[in English] As I said...
[in English] Anne needs the care
of a good wahine.
You've seen
her so-called father.
He's an embarrassment
to my name.
Where is Anne's mother?
She died.
Giving birth to her.
[in Maori]
[tense music playing]
-[door opens]
-[footsteps approaching]
[door closes]
[in English]
Hello. my name is Anne Cole.
It's my pleasure to meet you.
Hello. Anne Cole.
[in French]
[in English] You said she would.
[Nathaniel chuckles]
Are you joining us?
We would all love it.
if you would agree
to be Anne's new governess.
-Am I right?
-Yes.
Arthur?
-Yes. We would love that.
-There we are then.
Welcome aboard.
First Mate Anne.
why don't you take Miss Mary
outside
-and show her the grounds?
-Aye. aye. Captain.
[melancholy music playing]
[Anne] I've seen you before.
you know.
-[Mary] I doubt that.
-I think I have.
-What's in here?
-That's my koro's private room.
-Koro?
-My grandfather.
You speak French and Maori?
Yes. Koro teaches me.
and Uncle Jackie.
[footsteps receding]
[Anne] Come on.
-Is your uncle Maori?
-Maybe a bit.
This is from Uncle Jackie.
For my seventh birthday.
he got me the bracelet
and this lucky ship.
Then. when I turned eight.
this lucky whale.
And last month. for my ninth
birthday. a lucky tiki.
Tiki?
Then you must be
a very lucky girl.
I am.
Show me your arm again.
Look.
I've got one too.
They're like shooting stars.
Are shooting stars lucky?
Very.
Good.
This is one
of my favorite spots.
Go on.
Take a seat.
[machine clattering]
[eerie music playing]
Ta-da!
Isn't she amazing?
I say she.
because Uncle Jackie says
every Maori house is
a representation of an ancestor.
And I decided that this
particular house
is a representation
of a lady ancestor.
-[Mary] But how?
-[Anne] Koro had her shipped
all the way from New Zealand.
See. the window is her eye.
the door is her mouth.
and the gables
are her welcoming arms.
Up at the top. that carving
is called the koruru.
It's like the face of the house.
or the head.
[clicking]
[Hinemoana singing in Maori]
-[Nathaniel] What happened?
-She was staring at the whare.
and she just fell over.
[Hinemoana continues singing
in Maori]
[continues singing in Maori]
[in Maori]
[breathing heavily]
[gasps]
[groans]
[grunts then panting]
[Nathaniel sighs]
[in English]
This is excellent work. Jack.
Thank you.
Took a while to get right.
But a job worth doing
is a job worth doing well.
Am I right?
[knocking on door]
[Nathaniel] Mary.
[in Maori]
[in English] Although.
Miss Anne calls me Uncle Jackie.
[chuckles]
[grunts then panting]
[in English]
Pleased to meet you.
You don't sound it.
[in Maori]
[in English] Jack is a long-time
business partner of mine.
In fact.
Jack might be able to help us
in your search for information
about your parents.
Ah.
I could give it a shot.
[Nathaniel] Mary.
In two days. it's my birthday.
And I'm having a party.
Jack's providing
some of the entertainment.
-aren't you. Jack?
-Aye.
That's me.
The entertainment.
[chuckling]
I'd like you to be there. Mary.
I should be on my way.
Hmm.
For now...
I bid you adieu. uh...
Miss Mary Stevens.
[in Maori]
-[whistling]
-[footsteps receding]
[Nathaniel in English]
How are you?
Why do you keep an ancestral
house in your garden?
Why shouldn't I?
[in Maori]
[in English]
And I look after her.
How did you know I speak French?
-What?
-You told Anne I speak French.
Thomas must have mentioned it.
-But how would he know?
-Mary.
It was I...
who provided Thomas the funds
to buy your ticket here.
So you'll forgive me
for taking an interest in you.
[clattering]
[indistinct chatter]
[clock ticking]
-[screams]
-[ominous music playing]
[breathing heavily]
[screams]
What were your parents like?
I never met them.
What do you mean?
I was adopted by an Englishman
and his French wife.
And they called me Mary.
But my real name...
[in Maori]
[in English]
Was your father a whaler
like my koro ?
No.
He managed a trading post.
serving men
like your grandfather.
So how do you speak Maori?
My father traded with Maori.
And I had many Maori friends.
[rattling]
Koro says
it's private in there.
[eerie music playing]
You're working here now.
I need to decide
if I'm going to stay.
I don't have many options.
How long
have you been working here?
Nearly six months.
And how's it been for you?
What are you asking?
I mean...
living here.
Don't you think this...
place is...
-Don't you think Cole--
-You're the one
who's being housed
in a mighty fine bedroom.
And you're the one who's
going to be paid... good money
for looking after a single
little nine-year-old girl.
That's what I think.
Peggy.
You.
You shouldn't be here.
[footsteps receding]
[tense music playing]
Apparently. your people used
to be ferocious noble warriors.
But now they're dying out.
What do you say to that?
I would have to disagree.
Me too.
Shall I show you where I'm going
to go when I am dead?
My koro has a special spot
for me...
for when I die.
You're only nine.
We're all going to die.
you know.
Is everything all right. Father?
Yes. it is.
[Anne singing in Maori]
Amen.
[Nathaniel] Ah...
there you are.
Peggy's got your supper ready
and it's getting cold.
So go on. run.
[Anne] Woo-hoo!
She took you to her mother?
She did.
[Nathaniel]
When I lived in New Zealand.
Thomas Boyd
introduced me to...
a missionary
who was caring for a baby girl.
An orphan.
I adopted that girl.
I brought her back to England...
and I had her christened
Emilia Cole.
My wife [clears throat]
passed away...
when Arthur was young.
so I raised two children
on my own.
But in time...
Emilia grew into
a proper English lady.
[eerie music playing]
That's Arthur and Emilia
on their wedding day.
I'm sorry
that your sister is gone.
I really am.
And as your niece...
together we can be
her guardians.
Her kaitiaki.
[in Maori]
[Nathaniel in English]
We can make sure
that she gets the care
that she deserves
and the love befitting
her beautiful ancestors. Your--
[in Maori]
[in English]
Emilia is my sister?
She was your sister.
And your twin.
How could you keep that from me?
Mary...
I just want to help you.
-[Mary grunts]
-[Nathaniel groans]
[in Maori]
[dramatic music playing]
[Peggy in English] He asked me
to put this out for you.
And to say that he's sorry.
Did it belong to Emilia?
I think everything in here did.
[ominous music playing]
What is it?
She was bleeding.
I thought...
-I thought it was me.
-Mary.
It's... It's going to be
all right.
[eerie music playing]
[Hinemoana] Marama.
[stones clicking]
[Hinemoana in Maori]
[chuckles]
[Nathaniel grunting]
[suspenseful music playing]
[in English] You may go.
[coins clinking]
-[footsteps receding]
-[door opens]
[door closes]
[coins clattering]
Don't judge me.
I'd never do that.
I need your help. Peggy.
Look at me.
What can I do?
Oh.
It's my birthday. Our...
birthday.
And it was only last year.
I think my sister
could still be alive.
She's with child?
Please. Peggy.
Tell me you know
this Runswick House.
-It's a place for my people.
-Is it far?
I'm sorry.
[sobs]
Don't be.
[tense music playing]
[tense music continues]
Miss Mary Stevens. is it?
[groaning]
-A very healthy boy.
-[Emilia grunts]
[baby crying]
[in Maori]
[gasps]
[baby coos]
[in English] Forgive me.
[baby crying]
[baby muffled crying]
[baby gasping]
[baby stops gasping]
[sobs]
[breathing heavily]
[ominous music playing]
Anne.
Come here.
It's one of Koro's favorites.
He calls it
the Stairs to Heaven.
Did you do this?
It's beautiful.
You can have it if you want.
I've got many more.
You're such a clever girl.
I love you very much.
And I'm so. so proud of you.
[Peggy] Mary.
You can't accuse men of...
You're a woman.
Where I come from.
women have mana.
And what's that?
Mana is standing.
It's dignity and it's power.
Mary.
This is not your land.
[foreboding music playing]
[in Maori]
[Nathaniel in English]
1768. the HMS Endeavour
set sail from Whitby.
only a few miles
from where we gather tonight.
And history was made.
Because 90 years ago...
after 435 days at sea.
the world's greatest navigator
discovered New Zealand
and claimed it
on behalf of the British Crown.
So...
I'm ordering every one of you
to raise your glasses
to the legendary James Cook.
-Kia ora. Cookie! [laughing]
-[all laughing]
But this evening...
we have a very special guest.
The twin sister
of my beloved daughter-in-law.
Emilia.
She has traveled from
the other side of the world.
and I am so pleased
that she is here.
To Mary.
[all] To Mary.
[Nathaniel] Mary.
Stay here.
With Anne.
And with me.
Because this is your home.
[in Maori]
[in English]
You are part of my family.
Aye. that she is.
[upbeat music playing]
[in Maori]
[in English] I'm so glad
you decided to join us.
Am I to be forgiven?
I went to Runswick House.
One dance.
For the birthday boy.
[indistinct chatter]
[in Maori]
[in English]
Just like your mother.
What did you say?
I said you're beautiful.
Like no other.
[in Maori]
[in English]
Are you saying you don't know?
[in English] I'm saying
that you're beautiful.
What do you know?
I know that I love you.
Woo-hoo! Oh. hey! Huh!
[exclaims] Miss Mary Stevens.
[chuckles]
[in Maori]
-[gunshot]
-[Mary gasps]
[in English] She's definitely
an exquisite flower. this one.
Hmm.
[chuckles]
You like what you see?
[in Maori]
[in English] Huh?
Well. I lost
two thirds of my times
on that bitch of a boat.
So we marked it up.
[in Maori]
[in English] Along with Thomas.
God rest his soul.
[in Maori]
[in English] Am I right?
You should know what that means.
Yes. I do.
[in Maori]
[in English] Jack. behave.
What do you know
about my grandmother?
[Jack] Oh. listen. lass.
[in Maori]
[in English]
I put people together.
I make things happen.
It is my job to know
about everyone.
-Jack. I said behave.
-I am behaving.
[in Maori]
[in English]
I'm walking backwards
into my future. [laughs]
[exclaims]
Shut up. you lot!
Come on. gather round.
It's showtime.
-Huh?
-[man wolf-whistles]
[guests exclaiming]
Now. feast your eyes.
-Whoo!
-'Cause this...
is the closest thing
to a Maori warrior...
[grunts]
...that you're ever gonna get.
Because I'm one tribe.
-[exclaiming]
-[guests laughing]
[screams]
[exclaiming]
♪ Now I'm a handsome
Dirty boy ♪
♪ Hey! Hey! Oh! Oh! Oh! ♪
♪ I bring
The Southern Ocean beauty ♪
♪ Raise him up
And knock him down ♪
♪ I drop my anchor
In every harbor ♪
♪ Hey! Wave away ♪
♪ Let my lips stay soft
And my cock hard! ♪
♪ Raise him up
And knock him down ♪
♪ But I set my sights
On a fair wahine ♪
♪ Hey! Aue. hi
♪ On my lap and underneath me ♪
♪ Raise him up
And knock him down ♪
♪ And do your worst
You'll never cage me ♪
♪ Hey! Wave away ♪
♪ So I'll stick my spike ♪
-[grunts]
-[guests exclaim]
♪ In any ika I fancy ♪
♪ Raise him up
And knock him down ♪
-[exclaims]
-[guests cheer]
The show's not over yet.
Because here she comes.
[guests laughing and applauding]
[soft music playing]
[Jack] There she blows!
Watch your eyes.
[grunts]
[woman exclaims]
[man cackling]
Go on. come and get ya.
-[grunts]
-[guests exclaim]
[man] Boom! Yeah. Jackie!
[Jack grunts]
[woman] Jackie!
[grunts]
[guests exclaiming]
[Jack grunts]
[in Maori]
[in English] Come here.
[exclaims]
[singing in Maori]
[exclaims then sighs]
[cheering and applauding]
[tense music playing]
[in Maori]
[clicking]
-[crying]
-[woman grunting]
[in Maori]
[baby crying]
-[grunts]
-[woman groans]
-[Nathaniel grunts]
-[woman grunts]
[Nathaniel in Maori]
[grunting]
[baby crying]
[in English] Here. I got you.
[dramatic music playing]
[Thomas] Dear Mary Stevens.
I hope this letter
finds you well.
I hope with all my heart.
[baby gasps then crying]
[Thomas] You do not know me.
but I've known you...
-[door opens]
- ...all your life.
[footsteps approaching]
[gunshot]
[sobs]
-[soft music playing]
-[indistinct chatter nearby]
[Arthur] Father. turn around!
Please!
-I'm talking to you.
-Enough.
[Arthur grunts]
So...
You had to buy
your own pathetic title.
You're nothing but a bastard son
of a peasant.
Take her away. Mary. [grunts]
Take Anne away.
Take her away. Mary.
[in Maori]
[in English]
And I know what you did.
Then you'll understand
that this is your legacy.
And Anne's legacy.
You both deserve all of this.
It is your inheritance.
[dramatic music playing]
You sure you want
to do this tonight?
Yes. Jack. Tonight.
Are you ready?
Of course I'm ready.
Are you?
-[grunts]
-[screams]
[dramatic music continues]
[sighs]
I warned you not to interfere
in my business.
Why are you doing this?
I kept you out of prison.
I protected you.
And I supported you.
Sodomite.
You do not ask questions of me.
You useless. fruitless runt.
Miss Anne.
-[Anne grunts]
-You need to get up.
Uncle Jackie?
[dramatic music playing]
[grunts]
-Uncle Jackie. stop!
-Shut it. Annie.
[Anne screaming]
[woman humming]
[clicking]
[in Maori]
[dramatic music playing]
Peggy.
[both grunting]
-[grunts]
-[groans]
-[grunting]
-[groaning]
[grunting]
[both grunting]
-[Jack] Shut it.
-[grunts]
Shut your fucking mouth. right.
-Shut your mouth. [groans]
-[grunts]
-[Mary grunting]
-[Jack groaning]
[in Maori]
[Jack laughs]
[Jack grunts]
[groans]
[woman humming]
[gasping]
[woman continues humming]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Nathaniel] "Dear Mary Stevens."
[match scratching]
It was I who summoned you.
And you came to me.
Because I'm inside you.
Where is my sister?
Both of you.
As beautiful as your mother.
But you are stronger
than your sister.
You are the warrior
I always wanted.
You talk and you talk
and you talk.
[in Maori]
[breathing heavily]
[in English] I kept her safe.
For you.
Come.
Let us lift her up together.
[in Maori]
[in English] With me.
And with your sister. Anne.
Oh. you didn't know.
You both belong to me.
I am your father.
And I am Anne's father.
[in Maori]
[in English]
This is your legacy.
[in Maori]
[groaning]
[tense music playing]
[Mary breathing heavily]
[groans]
[in English]
You may be inside me.
[in Maori]
[groaning]
[tense music continues]
[Mary grunts]
[in Maori]
[tense music continues]
-[grunts]
-[screams]
[grunting]
[harpoon thuds]
[grunts]
[in Maori]
[somber music playing]
[somber music continues]
[in Maori]
[glass shatters]
[dramatic music playing]
[screaming]
[in Maori]
[in English] Your name
will be Anahera.
You are my sister.
And my angel.
[in Maori]
[somber music playing]
[singing in Maori]
[continues singing in Maori]
[woman singing in Maori]
[woman continues singing
in Maori]
[singing ends]
[somber music playing]
[woman singing in Maori]
[music ends]